docs/overview/getting-started.md, before:

!!! warning
    PVGeo is compatible only with version 5.6.x (the nightly build) of ParaView at this time.
    You must download the **nightly-build** version of ParaView
    [found here](https://www.paraview.org/download/)

!!! info
    If you have an idea for a macro, plugin, or would like to see how we would
    address a geoscientific visualization problem with ParaView, please post
    your thoughts on the [**issues page**](https://github.com/OpenGeoVis/PVGeo/issues)
    or get involved with the *PVGeo* community on Slack to discuss adding new
    features: <script async defer src="http://slack.pvgeo.org/slackin.js"></script>

## A Brief Introduction to ParaView

ParaView is an open-source platform that can visualize 2D, 3D, and 4D
(time-varying) datasets. ParaView can process multiple very large data sets in
parallel then later collect the results to yield a responsive graphics
environment with which a user can interact. The better the processor and
graphics hardware the machine or machines hosting the software, the faster
and better ParaView will run. However, it can run quite well on a laptop
with a standard graphics card such as a MacBook Pro.

Since ParaView is an open source application, anyone can download the program
and its source code for modifications. The easiest way to get started with
ParaView is to download the compiled binary installers for your operating
system from [**here**](https://www.paraview.org/download/).

For further help, check out the [documentation](https://www.paraview.org/documentation/)
provided by Kitware. In particular, the two worth looking through for a quick
tour of ParaView are the **The ParaView Guide** and **The ParaView Tutorial.**
One is a tutorial of the ParaView software and shows the user how to create
sources, apply filters, and more. The other is a guide on how to do scripting,
macros, and more intense use of the application.

### Install ParaView 5.6.x

!!! warning
    PVGeo is compatible only with version 5.6.x (the nightly build) of ParaView
    at this time. You must download the **nightly-build** version of ParaView
    [found here](https://www.paraview.org/download/)

Open the downloaded installer from
[**ParaView's website**](https://www.paraview.org/download/) and follow the
prompts with the installer.

Tour around software:
Take a look at Section 2.1 of **The ParaView Tutorial** for details of the
application’s GUI environment. Chapter 2 of the tutorial as a whole does an
excellent job touring the software and its workflow for those unfamiliar with
the software and its general capabilities.


??? tip "Tip: State Files"
    One convenient feature is to save the state of the ParaView environment.
    This saves all the options you selected for all the filters you applied to
    visualize some data. Select *File->Save State…* (*Note:* this saves the
    absolute path of the files loaded into ParaView, so be sure to select
    *Search for Files Under Directory...* when opening these state files).


----------


## Install *PVGeo*

We highly recommend using Anaconda to manage you Python virtual environments and
we know installation via Anaconda Python distributions will work on Mac, Windows,
 and Linux operating systems. To begin using the *PVGeo* Python package, create
 a new virtual environment and install *PVGeo* through pip.

```bash
$ conda create -n PVGeoEnv python=2.7
```

!!! warning "Use Python 2.7!!!"
    If you'd like to link PVGeo to ParaView, you must use a **Python 2.7**
    virtual environment.

```bash
$ source activate PVGeoEnv
(PVGeoEnv) $ pip install PVGeo
```

### Non-Windows Users

Now you must install VTK to your virtual environment. For Linux and Mac users,
simply install VTK through `pip`:

```bash
# Now install VTK
(PVGeoEnv27) $ pip install vtk
```


## Install PVGeo to ParaView

!!! warning
    PVGeo is compatible only with the nightly build of ParaView at this time.
    You must download the **nightly-build** version of ParaView
    [found here](https://www.paraview.org/download/)

To use the *PVGeo* library as plugins in ParaView, we must link the virtual
environment that you installed *PVGeo* to ParaView's Python environment and
load a series of plugin files that wrap the *PVGeo* code base with ParaView's
Graphical User Interface.


### Linking *PVGeo*

First, lets link *PVGeo*'s virtual environment to ParaView by setting up a
`PYTHONPATH` and a `PV_PLUGIN_PATH` environmental variables. First, retrieve
he needed paths from *PVGeo*. Do this by executing the following from your
command line:

```bash
(PVGeoEnv) $ python -m PVGeo install
```

??? bug "Having Trouble?"
    Try executing the following command to debug the launcher creation
    (this will help us if you create an issue):

    ```bash
    (PVGeoEnv27) $ python -m PVGeo install echo
    ```

#### Mac OS Users

That script will output the paths you need to set in the environmental variables
moving forward. If you are on a Mac OS X computer then that script will output
a shell command for you to execute for the install. If you are on a Mac, execute
that command and skip to [Loading the Plugins](#loading-the-plugins)

#### Windows Users

Setting up environmental variables is a bit involved for Windows. Remember how
we ran `:::bash python -m PVGeo install`? Well this created a new file on your
Desktop called `PVGeoLauncher.bat`. We will use this file to safely launch
ParaView it is own environment with environmental variable set properly.

1. Go to your Desktop and right-click to select **New->Shortcut**.

2. **Browse...** to the `PVGeoLauncher.bat` on your Desktop. Note sure where
this file is? Check the output of the `install` command from above.

3. Click **Next** and give your shortcut a meaningful name like
**ParaView+PVGeo** and select **Finish**.

4. Now right-click that newly created shortcut and select **Properties**.

5. For the **Start in** field, we will use the path to your ParaView installation
(top-level). To discover this, go to where ParaView is installed. Likely in
`C:\Program Files` and find the `ParaView 5.6-xxxxxx` folder. Go into that
folder and then copy the full path by copying the path in the navigation bar at
the top of the window. Paste this path into the **Start in** field.

6. Click **Apply** then **Okay**

7. Now launch ParaView using your new shortcut!

6. Test that the install worked: open the **Python Shell** and import the modules
delivered in this repo by executing `import PVGeo` and `import pvmacros`.
Errors should not arise but if they do, post to the
[**issues page**](https://github.com/OpenGeoVis/PVGeo/issues) and the errors
will be *immediately* addressed.


### Loading the Plugins

Now you must load the plugin files through ParaView's Plugin Manager. Select
*Tools -> Manage Plugins* then select *Load New* on the bottom right of the
popup dialog. Navigate to the directory declared in `PV_PLUGIN_PATH` and load
the pluigns files. Note that we have included a file called `PVGeo_All.py`;
this will load all of PVGeo's Plugins for conveinance. If you wish to only load
specific suites, then load the desired suites by their individual plugin `.py`
files. Once the plugins are loaded, expand them in the plugin
manager and be sure to select *Auto Load*.

??? error "Not sure where your `PV_PLUGIN_PATH` is located?"

    Re-run the install command with an additional argument `echo`:

    ```bash
    (PVGeoEnv27) $ python -m PVGeo install echo
    ```

![Plugin Manager](plugin-manager.png) <!-- .element width="50%" -->

Now test that the install worked by ensuring the various categories for the PVGeo
filters are in the **Filters** menu such as **PVGeo General Filters**. Errors
should not arise but if they do, post to the
[**issues page**](https://github.com/OpenGeoVis/PVGeo/issues) and the errors
will be *immediately* addressed.


!!! help
    If an error arises or you are having trouble, feel free to join the *PVGeo*
    community on Slack and ask for help:
    <script async defer src="http://slack.pvgeo.org/slackin.js"></script>

    You can also post to the
    [**issues page**](https://github.com/OpenGeoVis/PVGeo/issues) if you think
    you are encountering a bug.



## Update *PVGeo*

```bash
(PVGeoEnv) $ pip install --upgrade PVGeo
```


--------------

## Using Outside Modules

If you installed *PVGeo* according to the instructions above, then any Python
package installed through pip/conda in that virtual environment will be accessible in
ParaView. For some further reading on using virtual environments with ParaView,
see [this blog post](https://blog.kitware.com/using-pvpython-and-virtualenv/).

Commit message:

Update PV version notes to reflect PV's latest release

docs/overview/getting-started.md, after:

!!! info
    If you have an idea for a macro, plugin, or would like to see how we would
    address a geoscientific visualization problem with ParaView, please post
    your thoughts on the [**issues page**](https://github.com/OpenGeoVis/PVGeo/issues)
    or get involved with the *PVGeo* community on Slack to discuss adding new
    features: <script async defer src="http://slack.pvgeo.org/slackin.js"></script>

## A Brief Introduction to ParaView

ParaView is an open-source platform that can visualize 2D, 3D, and 4D
(time-varying) datasets. ParaView can process multiple very large data sets in
parallel then later collect the results to yield a responsive graphics
environment with which a user can interact. The better the processor and
graphics hardware the machine or machines hosting the software, the faster
and better ParaView will run. However, it can run quite well on a laptop
with a standard graphics card such as a MacBook Pro.

Since ParaView is an open source application, anyone can download the program
and its source code for modifications. The easiest way to get started with
ParaView is to download the compiled binary installers for your operating
system from [**here**](https://www.paraview.org/download/).

For further help, check out the [documentation](https://www.paraview.org/documentation/)
provided by Kitware. In particular, the two worth looking through for a quick
tour of ParaView are the **The ParaView Guide** and **The ParaView Tutorial.**
One is a tutorial of the ParaView software and shows the user how to create
sources, apply filters, and more. The other is a guide on how to do scripting,
macros, and more intense use of the application.

### Install ParaView

Open the downloaded installer from
[**ParaView's website**](https://www.paraview.org/download/) for ParaView 5.6.x
(or greater) and follow the prompts with the installer.

Tour around software:
Take a look at Section 2.1 of **The ParaView Tutorial** for details of the
application’s GUI environment. Chapter 2 of the tutorial as a whole does an
excellent job touring the software and its workflow for those unfamiliar with
the software and its general capabilities.


??? tip "Tip: State Files"
    One convenient feature is to save the state of the ParaView environment.
    This saves all the options you selected for all the filters you applied to
    visualize some data. Select *File->Save State…* (*Note:* this saves the
    absolute path of the files loaded into ParaView, so be sure to select
    *Search for Files Under Directory...* when opening these state files).


----------


## Install *PVGeo*

We highly recommend using Anaconda to manage you Python virtual environments and
we know installation via Anaconda Python distributions will work on Mac, Windows,
 and Linux operating systems. To begin using the *PVGeo* Python package, create
 a new virtual environment and install *PVGeo* through pip.

```bash
$ conda create -n PVGeoEnv python=2.7
```

!!! warning "Use Python 2.7!!!"
    If you'd like to link PVGeo to ParaView, you must use a **Python 2.7**
    virtual environment.

```bash
$ source activate PVGeoEnv
(PVGeoEnv) $ pip install PVGeo
```

### Non-Windows Users

Now you must install VTK to your virtual environment. For Linux and Mac users,
simply install VTK through `pip`:

```bash
# Now install VTK
(PVGeoEnv27) $ pip install vtk
```


## Install PVGeo to ParaView

!!! warning "Use the latest release of ParaView"
    PVGeo is compatible only with version 5.6.x (and greater) of ParaView.
    You can find the ParaView downloads page [here](https://www.paraview.org/download/)

To use the *PVGeo* library as plugins in ParaView, we must link the virtual
environment that you installed *PVGeo* to ParaView's Python environment and
load a series of plugin files that wrap the *PVGeo* code base with ParaView's
Graphical User Interface.


### Linking *PVGeo*

First, lets link *PVGeo*'s virtual environment to ParaView by setting up a
`PYTHONPATH` and a `PV_PLUGIN_PATH` environmental variables. First, retrieve
he needed paths from *PVGeo*. Do this by executing the following from your
command line:

```bash
(PVGeoEnv) $ python -m PVGeo install
```

??? bug "Having Trouble?"
    Try executing the following command to debug the launcher creation
    (this will help us if you create an issue):

    ```bash
    (PVGeoEnv27) $ python -m PVGeo install echo
    ```

#### Mac OS Users

That script will output the paths you need to set in the environmental variables
moving forward. If you are on a Mac OS X computer then that script will output
a shell command for you to execute for the install. If you are on a Mac, execute
that command and skip to [Loading the Plugins](#loading-the-plugins)

#### Windows Users

Setting up environmental variables is a bit involved for Windows. Remember how
we ran `:::bash python -m PVGeo install`? Well this created a new file on your
Desktop called `PVGeoLauncher.bat`. We will use this file to safely launch
ParaView it is own environment with environmental variable set properly.

1. Go to your Desktop and right-click to select **New->Shortcut**.

2. **Browse...** to the `PVGeoLauncher.bat` on your Desktop. Note sure where
this file is? Check the output of the `install` command from above.

3. Click **Next** and give your shortcut a meaningful name like
**ParaView+PVGeo** and select **Finish**.

4. Now right-click that newly created shortcut and select **Properties**.

5. For the **Start in** field, we will use the path to your ParaView installation
(top-level). To discover this, go to where ParaView is installed. Likely in
`C:\Program Files` and find the `ParaView 5.6-xxxxxx` folder. Go into that
folder and then copy the full path by copying the path in the navigation bar at
the top of the window. Paste this path into the **Start in** field.

6. Click **Apply** then **Okay**

7. Now launch ParaView using your new shortcut!

6. Test that the install worked: open the **Python Shell** and import the modules
delivered in this repo by executing `import PVGeo` and `import pvmacros`.
Errors should not arise but if they do, post to the
[**issues page**](https://github.com/OpenGeoVis/PVGeo/issues) and the errors
will be *immediately* addressed.


### Loading the Plugins

Now you must load the plugin files through ParaView's Plugin Manager. Select
*Tools -> Manage Plugins* then select *Load New* on the bottom right of the
popup dialog. Navigate to the directory declared in `PV_PLUGIN_PATH` and load
the pluigns files. Note that we have included a file called `PVGeo_All.py`;
this will load all of PVGeo's Plugins for conveinance. If you wish to only load
specific suites, then load the desired suites by their individual plugin `.py`
files. Once the plugins are loaded, expand them in the plugin
manager and be sure to select *Auto Load*.

??? error "Not sure where your `PV_PLUGIN_PATH` is located?"

    Re-run the install command with an additional argument `echo`:

    ```bash
    (PVGeoEnv27) $ python -m PVGeo install echo
    ```

![Plugin Manager](plugin-manager.png) <!-- .element width="50%" -->

Now test that the install worked by ensuring the various categories for the PVGeo
filters are in the **Filters** menu such as **PVGeo General Filters**. Errors
should not arise but if they do, post to the
[**issues page**](https://github.com/OpenGeoVis/PVGeo/issues) and the errors
will be *immediately* addressed.


!!! help
    If an error arises or you are having trouble, feel free to join the *PVGeo*
    community on Slack and ask for help:
    <script async defer src="http://slack.pvgeo.org/slackin.js"></script>

    You can also post to the
    [**issues page**](https://github.com/OpenGeoVis/PVGeo/issues) if you think
    you are encountering a bug.



## Update *PVGeo*

```bash
(PVGeoEnv) $ pip install --upgrade PVGeo
```


--------------

## Using Outside Modules

If you installed *PVGeo* according to the instructions above, then any Python
package installed through pip/conda in that virtual environment will be accessible in
ParaView. For some further reading on using virtual environments with ParaView,
see [this blog post](https://blog.kitware.com/using-pvpython-and-virtualenv/).
